- 2
	- 마리: Look at him. Breaks my heart.
	- 조지: Poor little guy, all alone.
	- 마리: I don't see why his brother can't sit with him.
	  collapsed:: true
		- I don't see: 나는 이해하지 못한다
	- 조지: Come on, Mary.
	- 조지: When you were in high school, would you have lunch with a nine-year-old?
	- 마리: Yes, I would've.
	  collapsed:: true
		- would have: 과거의 가정상황
	- 조지: Well, there's something wrong with you.
	- 마리: I'm gonna keep him company.
	  collapsed:: true
		- I'm gonna: I am going to, ~할 거야
		- company: 함께 있는 것
	- 조지: Hey, hey, hey, Mary. Mary.
	- 조지: Think this through. Right now the kids are just ignoring Sheldon.
	  id:: 677a3ebd-243f-41be-92f7-a363ea371ade
	  collapsed:: true
		- Think this through: 곰곰히 생각해봐
		- ignoring: ignore: 무시하다
	- 조지: What happens if he's sitting with his mommy?
	- 마리: They could mistake me for a senior.
	- 마리: Well, I look younger than you.
	- 조지: Just give this time, all right?
	- 조지: It'll work itself out.
	  collapsed:: true
		- 그것은 스스로 해결될 거야.
	- 어른 쉘던: My mother never understood that I actually enjoyed being alone.
		- understood: understand의 과거형, 이해하다
		- actually: 실제로
		- being alone: 혼자 있는 것
	- 어른 쉘던: Solitude allowed me to think about important things, like the effect of gravitational forces as you approach an event horizon, as opposed to less important things, like how many grapes my brother can fit in his mouth.
	- 조지 주니어: 14!
	- 어른 쉘던: Jean-Paul Sartre said, "Hell is other people."
	- 어른 쉘던: That's humorous because it's true.
	- 마리: Something wrong?
	- 미시: How come math is easy for Sheldon and hard for me?
	- 마리: I don't know, honey, but you have your own gifts.
	- 미시: Like what?
	- 마리: Well, like...
	- 마리: ...you have very pretty hair.
	- 미시: True.
	- 마리: Georgie.
	- 마리: Would you do me a little tiny favor?
	- 조지 주니어: Like what?
	- 마리: Tomorrow at lunch, would you mind sitting with your brother?
	- 미시: Don't do it, Georgie.
	- 마리: You stay out of this.
	- 미시: I ate with him in second grade.
	- 미시: It really hurt my social life.
	- 조지 주니어: Sorry, Mom. Can't do it.
	- 마리: Why are you such a brat?
	- 미시: Maybe I'm crying for attention.
	- 마리: This isn't a joke, young lady.
	- 마리: Yes, your brother may be smart, but he doesn't have a friend in the world.
	- 마리: And I am sorry, but I am very worried about him.
	- 미시: Nice going. You're making Mom a nervous wreck.
	  collapsed:: true
		- nervous wreck: 신경 쇠약자
	- 쉘던: What did I do?
	- 미시: You don't have any friends, and she is beside herself.
	  collapsed:: true
		- beside herself: 감정적으로 격한 상태를 나타낼때
	- 쉘던: But I'm fine without friends.
	- 미시: I don't know what to tell you, Sheldon.
	- 미시: She said it's your fault.
	- 미시: I'm going to watch ALF.
	  collapsed:: true
		- ALF: 알프, 티비프로그램 이름
	- 사서 허친스: Hey there, Sheldon.
	- 사서 허친스: What can I get for you today?
	- 사서 허친스: Chemistry? Quantum mechanics? Astronomy?
	- 쉘던: No, nothing fun today.
	- 쉘던: I need to learn how to make a friend.
	- 사서 허친스: Aw, honey, you having a hard time adjusting to high school?
	  collapsed:: true
		- adjusting: 적응
	- 쉘던: I'm having a hard time adjusting to Earth.
	- 사서 허친스: Yeah. You and me both.
	- 사서 허친스: Try this.
	- 사서 허친스: It's been around a while, but it's still quite popular.
	  collapsed:: true
		- It's been around a while: 꽤 오래되었다.
	- 사서 허친스: Unlike me,
	- 사서 허친스: who's just been around a while.
	- 쉘던: "How to Win Friends and Influence People."
	- 쉘던: This might do it.
	- 쉘던: "Principle one. Don't criticize, condemn or complain."
	- 어른 쉘던: The three sharpest arrows in my quiver.
	- 어른 쉘던: Thus began the greatest challenge of my young life.
	- 쉘던: Hello, George.
	- 조지: What?
	- 쉘던: I do admire your thick head of hair... George.
	- 조지: Thanks.
	- 조지: What's going on?
	- 쉘던: Well, I'm practicing the principles in this book.
	- 조지: Why?
	- 쉘던: Well, I know Mom is concerned that I don't have any friends, so I'm determined to remedy the situation.
	- 조지: Oh.
	- 쉘던: George.
	- 조지: Well, good for you.
	- 쉘던: Do you feel complimented when I say your name, George
	- 쉘던: The book says you should. George.
	- 조지: I suppose.
	- 조지: Kind of overdoing it a little.
	- 조지: Sheldon.
	- 쉘던: Well, thank you for your criticism.
	- 쉘던: It also says I should praise any improvements that you've made.
	- 조지: Okay.
	- 쉘던: I'll get back to you.
	- 쉘던: George.
	- 어른 쉘던: On the heels of that successful beta test, I decided to practice the Carnegie principles on someone my own age.
	- 쉘던: Hello, Billy Sparks.
	- 빌리: Hey, Sheldon.
	- 쉘던: I am genuinely interested in you and would like to encourage you to talk about yourself.
	- 빌리: Thank you.
	  id:: 677a2bce-0a0b-4da0-befa-1f6a59a3c072
	- 쉘던: You have the floor.
	- 빌리: Thank you.
	- 어른 쉘던: Looking back, I would've had better luck making friends with the chickens.
	- 쉘던: Go Wolves.
	- 치어리더1: What?
	- 쉘던: You're a cheerleader, and by saying "Go Wolves," I'm initiating a conversation about something that interests you.
	- 치어리더1: Oh, are you one of those special ed kids?
	- 쉘던: My mom says I'm special.
	- 쉘던: Would you like to be friends?
	- 치어리더1: I don't think so.
	- 쉘던: Are you sure? What if I told you I admired your boldly-applied makeup?
	- 쉘던: Greetings from stall number one.
	- 쉘던: As much as I detest that odd-smelling cigarette, I do applaud your rule-breaking bravado.
	- 쉘던: My name is Sheldon. What's yours?
	- 쉘던: Hello, gentlemen.
	- 쉘던: Did you watch any sports programs over the weekend?
	- 쉘던: Or perhaps did some kissing with girls?
	- 쉘던: Can you hear me?
	- 미시: 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100
	- 쉘던: You missed 11 numbers.
	- 미시: I don't need to be good at math. I have beautiful hair.
	- 쉘던: That's the saddest thing I've ever heard.
	- 미시: Didn't you already read that book?
	- 쉘던: I'm reading it again.
	- 미시: How come?
	- 쉘던: I clearly missed something.
	- 쉘던: I couldn't find one person who wanted to be my friend.
	- 미시: Did you look at the card inside?
	- 쉘던: Why? That's just other people who checked out the book.
	- 미시: It's a list of losers like you who can't find a friend.
	- 쉘던: So?
	- 미시: So they're desperate, and you have their names.
	- 쉘던: That's brilliant.
	- 미시: Mm.
	- 쉘던: Now, how is it that you can't count?
	- 마리: So your father tells me you've been reading a new book?
	- 쉘던: I am. It's about how to make friends.
	- 마리: Is that something you're interested in?
	- 쉘던: Not really, but Missy told me it makes you sad that I don't have any.
	- 마리: Oh.
	- 마리: I got to sew that girl's mouth shut.
	- 마리: So how's it going?
	- 쉘던: Well, the principles in the book didn't work for me at all.
	- 쉘던: Although Dad does like being called George over and over again, so you might give that a try.
	- 마리: Baby, you don't have to go to any trouble for me.
	- 쉘던: But I like doing things for you.
	- 쉘던: You're a nice lady.
	- 마리: But if the book's not working...
	- 쉘던: It isn't.
	- 쉘던: But I realized if I find the other people who checked out the book, they'd be looking for friends, too.
	- 마리: That's really smart.
	- 쉘던: Missy thought of it.
	- 마리: You're kidding.
	- 쉘던: I'm as surprised as you are.
	- 쉘던: Excuse me, Ms. Ingram?
	- 잉그럼: Sheldon, it's recess.
	- 잉그럼: Go outside, see what it's like.
	- 쉘던: Are you by any chance Evelyn Ingram?
	- 잉그럼: Yes.
	- 쉘던: The same Evelyn Ingram who checked out this book?
	- 잉그럼: And why is that your business?
	- 쉘던:  I just assumed you were looking to make a friend.
	- 잉그럼: Oh. Well, that was a long time ago.
	- 잉그럼: I had just gotten out of a very difficult relationship
	- 쉘던: With a friend?
	- 잉그럼: Friend.
	- 잉그럼: Ha! I gave that man three years of my life and my innocence.
	- 쉘던: I don't know what that means.
	- 잉그럼: It means men are lying dogs only interested in one thing.
	- 쉘던: Well, that's not the dictionary definition.
	- 잉그럼: Mm-hmm.
	- 잉그럼: Always starts the same.
	- 잉그럼: A quick glance across the room, a casual hand on the shoulder, lunch at Stuckey's.
	- 잉그럼: Oh, yeah, it's all romance and flowers in the beginning...
	- 어른 쉘던: The list proved to be a double-edged sword.
	- 어른 쉘던: It turns out self-help books written in 1936 were only of interest to adults.
	- 잉그럼: You're like, "I'm here because I care. And by the way, your phone could make calls, too."
	- 잉그럼: Then tries to turn this whole thing around like it's all about you being needy, and you're like, "Yes, I have needs! That's what makes me human!"
	- 어른 쉘던: Emotionally troubled adults.
	- 잉그럼: Child, go outside.
	- 선생: Yes, that's my signature. Why do you ask?
	- 쉘던: I'm seeking people who want to make friends.
	- 선생: I wasn't interested in friends.
	  id:: 677a3d96-5e77-4ab7-92ea-dfaeca64c055